* Breast Cancer Proteomics & AI Biomarker Discovery 
This repository contains a full computational pipeline for the identification of early-diagnosis biomarkers for breast cancer using proteomics data and machine learning.

Pipeline Structure & Files
The project is organized into specific stages as described in the workflow:

 Data Preprocessing  (/data):

data_grouped.py: Groups and normalizes the raw proteomics data.

Output: Generates the condensed-sdrf.tsv file used for analysis.

Differential Expression (/Differential Expression):

diff analysis_01.py: Identifies proteins with significant changes in expression.

gene.py: Maps protein names to gene names for biological context.

Visualizations (/Visualization):

visualization_04.py: Generates the Volcano plots to show significant nodes.

network_01.py: Creates a Network path showing the relationship between up and down-regulated nodes.

pathway.py: Generates a Waterfall graph to show the biological pathways involved.

Machine Learning (/Machine Learning):

shap_analysis.py: Uses a Random Forest model and SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) to predict and rank biomarker importance.

Biomarker Identification (/Biomarker Identification):

biomarker_identification_02.py: Detects and extracts the Top 5 Biomarkers.

Output: Generates two final .tsv files for clinical development.



How to Run with Docker
Using Docker ensures that the exact versions of the libraries (like SHAP and Scikit-learn) are used, regardless of whether you are on a Mac, Windows, or Linux.

1. Build the Pipeline

Open your terminal in the project folder and run:

Bash
docker build -t breast-cancer-ai .
2. Execute & Launch Dashboard

This command runs every script in the sequence described above and then opens the interactive dashboard:

Bash
docker run -p 8501:8501 breast-cancer-ai
3. View Results

Once the terminal shows "Streamlit is running," open your browser to:
http://localhost:8501

In case it says that the port is already allocated: 
Please run this command - docker stop $(docker ps -q --filter "publish=8501")

Prerequisites
Docker Desktop must be installed and running.

Your data files should be placed in the data/ folder before building.

Happy Exploring !!
